chore(docs): setup indexing (#1036)
adobe/helix-pages: docs/setup-indexing.md

# How to add indexing to your Helix 3 project step by step

This document explains how to setup indexing in your Helix 3 project.

## Setting up an initial query index

> If you start with the `helix-pages-starter` project you will have a `helix-query.yaml` configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you start with the [`helix-project-boilerplate`](https://github.com/adobe/helix-project-boilerplate) project you will have a `helix-query.yaml` configuration
```

file in your GitHub repository. After having setup your `fstab.yaml` with a mountpoint that points
into your SharePoint site or Google Drive, select a folder where your query index should be located,

> and enter the path relative to your mountpoint, e.g.:

Reviewer: _and enter the path..._

where do I enter the path?

Now enter the target URL of that query index location:

1. Select the folder in the Sharepoint UI
2. Choose action `Copy Link`, and select `Copy` in the popup window
3. Paste the link into the `helix-query.yaml`s target property
4. Remove the query string in that link (the question mark `?` and all that follows)

> 5. Append the name of your Excel workbook, e.g. `/query-index.xlsx`

Reviewer: maybe an example would be good here....or a screenshot

2. In that spreadsheet, create a sheet named `raw_index`
3. In that sheet, enter the names of the properties in your `helix-query.yaml` in the first row -
   one property name per cell - and add an entry `path`.

> 

Reviewer: add screenshot of how the google sheet should look like

## Setting up the properties that should be added to the index

In order to decide what properties should be indexed in your HTML pages, look at the existing
`properties` node in the starter `helix-query.yaml`. Further information on their semantics can be

> found in the [Reference](https://github.com/adobe/helix-index-files#reference) section of the

Reviewer: helix-index-files is archived.... isn't the information now in helix-indexer?

> found in the [Reference](https://github.com/adobe/helix-index-files#reference) section of the

Reviewer: isn't this repo going away once helix2 is deprecated?

Author: it is 😞 I'll copy its contents to `helix-pages/docs` as well, then

Reviewer 2: @dominique-pfister Actually, the content should be in Google Drive now. I'll give you access.

Author: @rofe: should *this* file go to `helix-website/docs` as well?

Reviewer 2: @dominique-pfister yes I think going forward, all documentation should be in `helix-website/docs`.

`helix-index-files` project.

> 

Reviewer: also add a section explaining how to use `hlx up --print-index` to quickly configure your `helix-query.yaml`

Reviewer: you can add a link to the mp4:
https://main--helix-website--adobe.hlx3.page/media_15501e6b07101255cb6ef99077f218666809ec354.mp4

( I already uploaded it to the helix-website mediabus)

## Checking what your indexed page would look like

The Helix 3 Admin Service has an API endpoint where you can check the index representation of
your page. Given your GitHub owner, repository, branch and owner, and a resource path to your
page, its endpoint is:

https://admin.hlx3.page/index/`owner`/`repo`/`branch`/`path`

You should get a JSON response, where the `data` node contains the index representation of
your page.

## Setting up more index configurations

> You can have more than index configuration in the same `helix-query.yaml`, where different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can have more than one index configuration in the same `helix-query.yaml`, where different
```

branches are indexed into different Excel workbooks or Google spreadsheets. Again see the
[Reference](https://github.com/adobe/helix-index-files#reference) for more details

## Setting up an AWS queue to store indexed records into

This is currently a manual process, that someone from the Helix Project must invoke. Please contact
some team member and tell them your project's GitHub owner and repository.

> 

Reviewer: maybe add the steps an helix-admin needs to do as well here, so we have everything in place.
